[Music]
we're heading down into the basement of
the National Institute on Aging hidden
away down here there's a special mouse
he's keen to show me radial armies this
mouse is exploring a maze it's a memory
test designed to see how well he
remembers where he has found food before
the mice they study are destined to
develop Alzheimer's disease normally
they succumb within a relatively short
time but when these mice are put on a
diet of feast days and fast days what
Mark calls intermittent energy
restriction the results are incredible
so that the animals on intermittent
energy restriction they'll live much
longer with normal at least as best as
we can test normal learning and memory
before they start having problems so
significantly longer
yeah highly significantly we found in
one study six months to a year that's
the equivalent in a human of the
difference between developing signs of
Alzheimer's that say the age of 50 and
age of 8 years right so you on the other
hand when the mice eat a fast food diet
they go downhill much earlier we give
them lots of sugary drinks a fad diet
exactly and we put fructose in their
drinking water and that has a dramatic
effect in the animals will have an
earlier onset of the learning and memory
problems how much soon in three to four
months soon Wow so that is equivalent to
them developing Outsiders in
32 maybe early forties right so far
they've only done studies in mice but
they're about to carry out human trials
how good is the evidence if someone like
me were to start on intermittent fasting
it would cut my risk of brain diseases
probably I think from the human
standpoint it's if we go on a scale from
poor to good very good excellent
outstanding it's in a very good to
excellent range that's the way I would
category
[Music]